.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH SUBSTRING 3 "2024-11-24" "CRpaic" "CRpaic User's Manual"
.SH NAME
substring \- returns a copy of the substring of \(dqs\(dq consisting of the
characters between index positions \(dqp1\(dq and \(dqp2\(dq, inclusive.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <CRpaic.h>
.PP
.BI "char *substring (const char *" s ", int " p1 ", int " p2 ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR substring ()
takes three arguments: a string
.IR s
and two integer indices,
.IR p1
and
.IR p2 ,
which represent positions in the string. It returns a copy of the substring in
.IR s
containing the characters between
.IR p1
and
.IR p2 ,
inclusive.
.PP
The user must provide a valid string
.IR s
and must free the memory allocated for the substring, after use.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR substring ()
function returns the (pointer to) the copy of the substring in
.IR s
containing the characters between
.IR p1
and
.IR p2 ,
inclusive. The following special cases apply:
.PP
.IP a) 4
If
.IR p1
< 0, it is assumed to be 0;
.PP
.IP b) 4
If
.IR p2
> (\c
.BR strlen\c
.RI ( s )
- 1), it is assumed to be (\c
.BR strlen\c
.RI ( s )
- 1);
.PP
.IP c) 4
If
.IR p2
<
.IR p1
the function returns the empty string; and
.PP
.IP d) 4
If user does not provides a valid string
.IR s ,
or if there is an error on the allocation of memory for the new substring, the
function returns NULL.
.SH BUGS
The
.BR substring ()
function counts index position using bytes, not characters. This could cause
errors if the string
.IR s
contain multibyte characters. For exemplo: the word \(dqComputação\(dq contain
12 bytes (plus one additional byte for \(aq\\0\(aq). You must be very careful if
the string to be processed constains multibyte characters.
.PP
Please report bugs and other issues on
.URL "https://github.com/computacaoraiz/CRpaic/" "CRpaic's GitHub:"
.SH EXAMPLE
.in +4n
.EX
#include <CRpaic.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main (void)
{
    /* Create a test string */
    string s = "CRpaic Library";

    /* Get and print just the name of library */
    string sub = substring(s, 0, 5);
    if (!sub)
    {
        fprintf(stderr, "Could not get substring.\\n");
        return 1;
    }
    printf("Substring: %s\\n", sub);

    /* Don't forget to free the memory allocated for the substring! */
    free(sub);
    
    return 0;
}
.EE
.in
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR get_char (3),
.BR get_string (3),
.BR ithchar (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of CRpaic User\(aqs Manual
.IR man-pages .
A description of the project, information about reporting bugs, and the latest
version of this page, can be found at
.URL "https://github.com/computacaoraiz/CRpaic/" "CRpaic's GitHub".
